catalogues/local/README.md, before:

# Localhost  README

## About

Some notes for running locally to a machine named workstation.lan

## quickstart

### where to change to the local client address

```bash
server_compose.yaml
55:      QLEVER_HOST: "http://workstation.lan:7007"
```


```bash
Qleverfile-ui.yml
6:    baseUrl: https://workstation.lan:7007
252:    mapViewBaseURL: "https://workstation.lan:9090"
```

### where to change the locations to download from

```bash
Qleverfile-odis
10:BASE_URL          = http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public
11:GET_DATA_CMD      = curl -sLo odis.nq.zip -C - ${BASE_URL}/odis.nq.zip && unzip -q -o odis.nq.zip && rm odis.nq.zip

initialize_compose.yaml
28:    image: alpine/curl
36:      sh -c "curl -fLo /data/Qleverfile.odis http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/Qleverfile-odis &&
37:      curl -fLo /data/Qleverfile-ui.yml http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/Qleverfile-ui.yml &&
38:      curl -fLo /data/odis.ui-db.sqlite3 http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/odis.ui-db.sqlite3 &&
39:      curl -fLo /data/odis.settings.json http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/odis.settings.json &&
```


## Notes

Do I need to address: 

```bash
docker exec -i qlever.ui.odis bash -c "python manage.py config default /app/db/Qleverfile-ui.yml --hide-all-other-backends"
```

domain: https://workstation.lan/

docker volume create ql_dvol

In Qleverfile:

```SYSTEM = docker```   vs  ```SYSTEM = native```

Simple SPARQL check via curl on the Qlever port for good feelings (jq is optional of course):

```bash
curl -s "http://workstation.lan:7007" -H "Accept: application/qlever-results+json" -H "Content-type: application/sparql-query" --data "SELECT * WHERE { ?s ?p ?o } LIMIT 10"  | jq
```

Commit message:

Introduce deployment configuration for Qlever services
Add `README.md`, `qlever_namespace.yaml`, `qlever_services.yaml`, `qlever_services_override.yaml`, and `env.example` for Qlever-based deployment. Define containerized services for base, UI, and petrimaps, with networking and environmental variable support. Update `requirements.txt` to include `gradio[mcp]`.

catalogues/local/README.md, after:

# Localhost  README

## About

Some notes for running locally to a machine named workstation.lan

## quickstart

There are really 3 steps to testing this locally.

1) update the name for your server IP or FQDN
2) update the location the files are downloaded from
3) upload the files in this directory to that location

### where to change to the local client address

```bash
server_compose.yaml
55:      QLEVER_HOST: "http://workstation.lan:7007"
```


```bash
Qleverfile-ui.yml
6:    baseUrl: https://workstation.lan:7007
252:    mapViewBaseURL: "https://workstation.lan:9090"
```

### where to change the locations to download from

```bash
Qleverfile-odis
10:BASE_URL          = http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public
11:GET_DATA_CMD      = curl -sLo odis.nq.zip -C - ${BASE_URL}/odis.nq.zip && unzip -q -o odis.nq.zip && rm odis.nq.zip

initialize_compose.yaml
28:    image: alpine/curl
36:      sh -c "curl -fLo /data/Qleverfile.odis http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/Qleverfile-odis &&
37:      curl -fLo /data/Qleverfile-ui.yml http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/Qleverfile-ui.yml &&
38:      curl -fLo /data/odis.ui-db.sqlite3 http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/odis.ui-db.sqlite3 &&
39:      curl -fLo /data/odis.settings.json http://ossapi.oceaninfohub.org/public/ioc-local/odis.settings.json &&
```


## Notes

Do I need to address: 

```bash
docker exec -i qlever.ui.odis bash -c "python manage.py config default /app/db/Qleverfile-ui.yml --hide-all-other-backends"
```

domain: https://workstation.lan/

docker volume create ql_dvol

In Qleverfile:

```SYSTEM = docker```   vs  ```SYSTEM = native```

Simple SPARQL check via curl on the Qlever port for good feelings (jq is optional of course):

```bash
curl -s "http://workstation.lan:7007" -H "Accept: application/qlever-results+json" -H "Content-type: application/sparql-query" --data "SELECT * WHERE { ?s ?p ?o } LIMIT 10"  | jq
```
